{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Chapter 10 Real Assets
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf0 10.1 Demonstrate knowledge of natural resources other than land.\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss natural resources as an exchange option\

\b Exchange option
\b0 : to exchange one risky asset for another rather than to buy or sell one asset at a fixed exercise or strike price. The process of developing a resource involves using the mineral rights along with fuel, materials, labor, management, and equipment to bring a commodity to market: the developer exchanges one set of resources with stochastic prices (production inputs) to obtain the output (with a price also stochastic)\
For example, firm with mineral rights to gold can be viewed as owning an option to exchange the mineral rights, fuel, mining equipment, labor, management, and materials necessary to extract the gold for a long position in the underlying gold.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the concept of moneyness as it pertains to the development of natural resources\
Moneyness reflects the direct benefit-to-cost ratio of developing the natural resource immediately. It has 3 status: in-the-money (>1), at-the-money (=1), and out-of-money (<1). Being in the money means that if the mineral rights are mined at the current price of commodity (i.e. gold), then revenues from sale of commodity will exceed the current costs of developing commodity (i.e. mineral rights, fuel, labor, management, materials, and equipment)\
Perpetual option: option with no expiration date. The option to develop rights to a natural resource may have no expiration date. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss why some in-the-money options should not be immediately exercised\
The value of delaying a decision to exercise an ITM development option is based on an analysis of benefit of awaiting further information. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the relationship between the moneyness of natural resource options and short-term financial risks\
The short term financial risks are primarily driven by the price of the underlying commodity. The steep slope of deep ITM option indicates that changes in the price of commodity are the dominant source of short-term volatility in the value of option to develop the natural resource. \
Higher moneyness shortens the time horizon of the exercise of the option and reduces the chance that the option\'92s price will be substantially altered directly by changes in the cost of developing the natural resource.\
\
\
10.2 Demonstrate knowledge of land as an alternative asset.\
\uc0\u61623  Define land banking\

\b Land banking
\b0 : investment in and acquisition of undeveloped land or vacant lots. It is the practice of buying vacant lots for the purpose of development or disposition at a future date.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the three types of land lots (i.e., paper lots, blue top lots, and finished lots)\
1. 
\b Paper lots
\b0 : sites are vacant and approved for development by local zoning authority, but for which construction on streets, utilities, and other infrastructure has not yet commenced.\
2. 
\b Blue top lots
\b0 : interim stage of lot completion. Owner has completed rough grading of property and lots has paid all applicable fees required. At his stage, a home builder can obtain a building permit upon payment of ordinary building permit fee.\
3. 
\b Finished lots
\b0 : fully completed and ready for home construction and occupancy. All entitlements, inclduing infrastructure to the lot, finished grading, streets, common area improvements, and landscaping, have been completed. All development fees have been paid.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss investment in undeveloped land as a call option\
1. The 
\b strike
\b0  is the cost of developing or improving the land (e.g. constructing an apartment building)\
2. The 
\b time
\b0  
\b to
\b0  
\b expiry
\b0  is typically unlimited. \
3. The 
\b receivable
\b0  
\b asset
\b0  of the option is the combination of land and its improvement or development (e.g. finished apartment building with the land beneath it)\
4. The 
\b payoff
\b0  of option is spread between the value of completed project and the cost of constructing the project\

\b Note
\b0 : the strike price tends to be correlated with the price of imported real estate, because the actions of developers tend to arbitrage the relative prices whenever the price of improved real estate substantially increases relative relative to the cost of development. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Apply the binomial option pricing technique for valuing land as a call option\
A 
\b risk-neutral probability
\b0  is a probability that values assets correctly, if all market participants were risk neutral.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the risks and returns of investing in land\
Land development tends to be riskier and more speculative than other real estate investing, owning primarily to its lack of revenue, its long holding period, and its uncertain prospects.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Calculate the expected return of land investments\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The expected return depends on its systematic risk, which is the probability-weighted average of expected return of land if its is developed\
E[R_l] = P_d\\times E[R_d] + (1 - P_d)\\times E[R_nd]\
Undeveloped land is criticized as an investment with poor returns, based on observation that values of undeveloped land do not increase substantially over time. <- however, historical returns of undeveloped land may suffer from a 
\b negative
\b0  
\b survivorship
\b0  
\b basis
\b0 , which is a downward bias caused by excluding the positive returns of properties or other assets that successfully left the database.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Negative survivorship bias = E[R_l] - E[R_nd] = mean return - undeveloped land return\
\
10.3 Demonstrate knowledge of timber and timberland as alternative assets.\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the characteristics of timber and timberland\

\b Timer
\b0  is investment in existing forestland for long-term harvesting of wood. Forests may be owned by the \
1. 
\b Public ownership (86%)
\b0 : government body exercises ownership jurisdiction over lands\
2. 
\b Private ownership
\b0 : individuals, firs, business, corporations, and non-governmental organizations posses ownership rights to forests\
Note: United States is different, as 57% are privately owned, and 43% are publicly owned\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the role of timberland investment management organizations (TIMOs)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 TIMO 
\b0 (Timberland Investment Management Organization): provide management services to timberland owned by institutional investors, such as pension plans, endowments, foundations, and insurance companies. Instead of actually owning the timberland, TIMO arranges for investors to buy the timberland and then manage the timberland on behalf of those investor\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\uc0\u61623  Describe the risks and returns of timberland investments\
Pros and cons of Timber investment\

\b Pros
\b0 :\
1. Timber can be an inflation hedge\
2. (key) Timber has had modest correlation to stocks and bonds\
3. Timber is also an investment in land\
4. Timer is perpetually renewable resource\
5. The harvest schedule for timber is very flexible\
6. Three continue to grow until harvesting\
\

\b Cons
\b0 :\
1. Timer values are tied to cyclical industries\
2. As a renewable resource, timber supply is not fixed\
3. Electronic media and recycling limit demand for paper\
4. Timber is at risk to natural disasters\

\b Rotation
\b0 : length of time from the start of timber (planting) until the harvest of the timber. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Identify methods of timberland ownership\
There are 2 publicly traded ways to invest in timber\
1. At least 2 ETFs have been developed to track S&P Timber and Forestry index. Unfortunately, the returns of two ETFs have not matched those of index very closely\
2. Through real estate investment trusts (REITs). There are four REITs that specially invest in timberland\
\
\
10.4 Demonstrate knowledge of farmland as an alternative asset.\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the characteristics of farmland investments\

\b Farmland
\b0  represents ownership of a real asset (land), and also generates current cash flow, as crop income is a potentially steady and renewable stream of cash. The difference: the annual cash flow is more closely linked to commodity prices (i.e. crop prices) rather than rent. Therefore, the farmland market rice is closely linked to commodity prices.\
The owner of farmland can lease the land to a local farmer, a cooperative, or even an agricultural corporation. Hence, the lease payments are made on a calendar basis.\
Farmland vs timberland: farm crops must be harvested annually and generally within a window of just a few weeks, while timberland has great flexibility in harvest schedule. \
Farmland faces political risk, economic uncertainty caused by changes in government policy that may affect returns, perhaps dramatically. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Calculate the value of farmland based on annual operating income and the cap rate\
Value of real estate = annual operating income / cap rate\
cap rate: capitalization rate (or yield) = return on assets\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss factors that affect farmland prices and returns\
Total returns on farmland depend on cash flows from income as well as changes in market prices of farmland. Farmland contains the idiosyncratic risks of poor harvests and farm-specific cost inefficiencies. Farmland revenues, returns, and valuations are also driven by macroeconomic factors, including commodity prices. \
\
Two potential boost to farmland prices:\
1. Farmland may be viewed as a play on the growing global population\
2. Continuing expansion in farmland as a source of energy through bio-fuels.\
\
The expected 
\b returns
\b0  of farmland:\
1. Farmland produces commodities that trade on international markets\
2. Unlike buildings, farmland generally does not deteriorate substantially through time and does not need renovation\
3. Farmland is very scalable: the additional amount of machinery and labor needed to manage and produce crops on additional acreage is not large\
\
There are 
\b risks
\b0  to farmland from a portfolio management perspective:\
1. Farmland is illiquid like most other forms of real estate investing\
2. Transaction costs are high (fees of 3% to 5%)\
3. The time to find a suitable buyer can be long, particularly in a recession\
4. Financing can become unavailable at times, which can undermine the land value\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe farmland as a multiple use option\
The value of multiple purposes of farmland is driven by 3 factors\
1. current closeness of profitability of each alternative to each other: see the value of each\
2. the volatility of probability of each alternative\
3. the lack of correlation between alternatives as to profitability: low correlation of uses generates higher option value\
\
\uc0\u61623  Identify methods of obtaining exposure to farmland\
private farmland ownership is the primary method. For publicly traded alternatives, there are 2 stocks that track farmland and agribusiness industry: DAX Global Agribusiness Index and Thomson-Reuters In-the-Ground Global Agriculture Equity Index. Both track publicly traded companies that engage in 4 areas of agribusiness industry\
1. agricultural products\
2. seed and fertilizer\
3. farm machinery\
4. packaged foods\
\
\
10.5 Demonstrate knowledge of valuation and volatility of real assets.\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the smoothing of prices and returns\
Real assets often do not have observable market values and instead are valued by appraisals. \

\b Smoothing
\b0 : reduction in the reported dispersion in a price or return series\
\
\uc0\u61623  Determine the effect of smoothing on observed volatility\
If the highest and lowest returns are smoothed, the observed volatility can be substantially reduced. Smoothing can also affects the measured correlation between returns on different assets.\
That is return series changes, can cause change in correlation and volatility\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe how values and returns are managed\

\b Managed returns
\b0  are returns based on value that are reported with an element of managerial discretion. There are 4 primary ways that values and returns can be managed\
1. 
\b favorable marks
\b0 : indication of value of a position that is intentionally provided by a subjective source. e.g. ask brokerage to provide indication of higher values for reporting. Favorable marks may be used to obtain high real estate appraisals that enable larger mortgages.\
2. 
\b selective appraisals
\b0 : opportunity for investment managers to choose how many, and which, illiquid assets should have their values appraised during a given period. This practice enables investment managers to alter the timing of appraisals and selection of properties to be appraised to manager reported returns.\
3. 
\b model manipulation
\b0 : the process of altering model assumptions and inputs to generate desired values and returns. it can happen in commix unlisted derivative transactions. The reported value can be manipulated by altering the parameter values that are inserted into the model. \
4. 
\b market manipulation
\b0 : engaging in trading activity designed to cause the markets to produce favorable prices for thinly traded listed securities. e.g. a buy order placed very near the close of trading to generate a higher closing price in order to report more favorable returns for the current period.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss how appraisals contribute to smoothing of real asset prices\
A central issue in the analysis of the risks and returns to real assets is the effect of the use of appraisals on the estimation of returns and the measurement of risk.\
1. anchoring: appraisers may inadvertently underprice real assets that experience large upward shifts and overprice real assets that experience large downward shifts. the result is a highly smoothed price.\
2. extreme illiquidity: period of months typically passes between the agreement on a price for a transaction and the actual culmination of the exchange. Thus, changes in appraised values typically lag changes in actual values by even more than changes in observed transaction prices do.\
These 2 sources of lagged information affect the measurement of return correlations between liquid and illiquid assets. for example, the liquid and illiquid has the same return series, but illiquid asset has 1 period lag behind because of illiquidity lag and appraisal lag. the true correlation is 100%, but the true correlation may be 30%\
\
\
\uc0\u61623  Compare smoothed returns with market returns\
Often the returns from appraised values diverge substantially from the returns computed from market prices, even though the underlying real assets are similar. In particular, the volatility of returns based on market prices is often substantially higher than the volatility of returns based on appraised values. \

\b Contagion
\b0 : any tendency of major market movements to be transmitted from one financial market to other financial markets. The high volatility of listed real estate prices would be driven by potentially temporary contagion effects rather than indicating true volatility in the value of underlying properties.\
\
10.6 Demonstrate knowledge of historical performance of timber and farmland.\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize inferences that can be drawn from comparing definable characteristics of timber and farmland investing with their historical stand-alone and portfolio performance\
the total measured risk of both timber and farmland was much 
\b lower
\b0  than risk of equities, commodities, and high-yield bonds, and was in line with that of global bonds. \
Smoothing has minimal effects on long-term average reported returns but tends to cause substantial underestimation of volatilities and extreme deviations in true returns. \
\
\
\
}