{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19120\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Chapter 6\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf2 6.1 Demonstrate knowledge of the concept of informational market efficiency.\
\uc0\u61623  Define informational market efficiency\
The extent to which asset prices reflect available information. An informationally efficient market is a market in which assets are traded at prices that equal their values based on all available information (efficient market theory or efficient market hypothesis)\
\
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize various forms of informational market efficiency\
The purpose of these 3 forms is to simplify and structure discussions of informationally efficient markets.\
1. Weak form informational market efficiency (week level): market prices reflecting available data on past prices and volumes. Technical analysis no use in earning consistent and superior risk-adjusted returns\
2. semi-strong form informational market efficiency (semi-strong level): market prices reflects all publicly available information (both past and publicly available information now). both technical and fundamental analysis has no use in earning consistent and superior risk-adjusted returns\
3. Strong form informational market efficiency (strong level): market prices reflect all publicly and privately available information. insider trading no use to earn consistent and superior risk-adjusted returns.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Identify factors driving informational market efficiency\
There are 6 major factors to drive market efficiency. the first four to facilitate competition and to enhance liquidity, and the last two to facilitate better analysis\
1. Greater value of asset traded, the greater competition for potential profits and losses from mis-pricing, within limits. However, very large asset values, such as huge equity deals, may reduce competition if there are relatively few traders who have the resources to acquire the assets\
2. Greater trading frequency, by providing greater incentives for investors, speculators, and arbitrageurs to analyze information and attempt to make favorable trades. \
3. Low levels of trading frictions, by encouraging arbitrage and speculation with the lowering of total trading costs. Trading frictions include transaction costs, brokerage fees, exchange fees, regulatory fees and taxes\
4. Fewer regulatory constraints on trading, by expanding competition and trading. E.g. restrictions on short selling and leverage\
5. Easier access to better information, by facilitating better financial analysis. \
6. Less uncertainty about their valuation, or better valuation methods lead to better analysis. E.g. development of sound option pricing models in 1970s to improve efficiency in options markets\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the differences between informational market efficiency in traditional and alternative asset markets\
Both traditional and alternative asset markets are quite diverse with regard to the first four factors. There are large, heavily traded markets, and small, thinly traded markets, in both traditional and alternative asset markets.\
With regard to 5th and 6th factors: substantial nonpublic information and substantial uncertainty with regard to valuation methods. The practice and tools for investing in traditional assets tend to be better developed and more widely accepted. The complex trading strategies inherent in some alternative investment lend themselves to the discovery and exploitation of market inefficiencies. Hedge funds and private equity is accessible to a relatively limited number of traders and requires highly specialized tools. In contrast, long-only trading in traditional assets is accessible to numerous traders. Market efficiency is a vital tool in practice of alternative investing. \
\
6.2 Demonstrate knowledge of single-factor asset pricing models and ex ante pricing.\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the key characteristics of single-factor asset pricing models\
return, systematic risk, and diversification\
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize the capital asset pricing model (CAPM)\
CAPM has two parts: a risk-free rate to compensate time value; and risk premium to compensate for bearing risk. \
\\doubleE[R_i] = R_f + \\beta_i[\\doubleE[R_m] - R_f]\
The market portfolio is a hypothetical portfolio containing all tradable assets in the world, using market value as weight\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the key characteristics of ex ante and ex post asset pricing models\
Ex ante models provide an understanding of how return expectations or requirements are formed\
Ex ante makes two powerful prescriptions related to alternative investments\
1. all rewards for bearing risk should only be available from earning market risk, which can be fully measured by an asset\'92s beta relative to the market portfolio\
2. investors should not be able to earning any additional expected return from bearing any other type of risk\
If CAPM were true, every investor would hold all risky assets in proportion to their size. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize the distinctions between ex ante asset pricing and ex post asset pricing\
Two essential attributes of ex post CAPM are\
1. the return form idiosyncratic risk has an expected value of zero\
2. the return from idiosyncratic risk is not linearly correlated with the return of the market, as it\'92s captured by beta\

\fs24 \\sigma_i^2 = \\beta_i^2\\sigma_m^2 + \\sigma_e^2\
Although ex post returns can be observed, the beta of investment is never observed, therefore e_it can only be estimated. 
\fs22 \
\
\
\
\
\
6.3 Demonstrate knowledge of multifactor and empirical asset pricing models.\
\uc0\u61623  Apply and interpret equations representing ex ante and ex post forms of multifactor asset pricing models\
A general ex ante form of multi-factor asset pricing model\
E[R_i] - R_f = \\sum \\beta_ij [E[R_j] - R_f] \
Multi-factor models are primarily used as cross-sectional models that attempt to identify the return attributable to various systematic risk factors and therefore identify the portion of return differences across securities that would be attributable to idiosyncratic risk. \
The most popular multi-factor model: Fama-French model, which links the returns of equities to two factors in addition to market factor: \
1. a factor representing a growth vs value effect\
2. a factor representing a size effect\
\
\uc0\u61623  Distinguish between theoretically derived and empirically identified return factors\
1. Theoretical model: factors are derived from reasoning based on known factors and relationships. e.g. model that recognizes returns of some alternative asset should depend on statistical parameters other than just mean and variance, such as skewness. another example: model linking returns of a hybrid security containing equity and bond features to market returns of equity markets and bond markets\
2. Empirical model: derived from observation. e.g. model that recognizes the returns of some traditional assets are correlated with their market-to-book ratios. The key would be that factors were observed to be correlated using historical data rather than identified ahead of time based on arguments relying on well-established economic reasoning. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe the steps typically involved in empirical modeling of returns\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 1. risk free rate is subtracted from the past returns of each security or fund to form the excess return for each asset\
2. Researcher selects a set of potential factors that serve as independent variables\
3. Statistical analysis is used to identify those factors that are significantly correlated with the returns\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\uc0\u61623  Recognize the key components of the Fama-French and Fama-French-Carhart models, and discuss the appropriate application of these models in alternative investing\
Fama-French model: E[R_i] - R_f = \\beta_i[E[R_m] - R_f] + \\beta_1i [E[R_s - R_b]] + \\beta_2i [E[R_h - R_l]]   \
1. market portfolio (same as CAPM)\
2. value vs growth effect (book-to-market ratio)\
3. small-cap vs large-cap effect (capitalization size)\
\
Fama-French-Carhart model: FF + \\beta_3i [E[R_w - R_d]]\
adds a fourth factor: momentum. The idea is whether a common stock has risen or fallen recently helps explain subsequent performance. R_w is the return to a diversified portfolio of winning stocks; while R_d is the return to a diversified portfolio of declining stocks. \
\
Application to alternative investments: alternative assets do not tend to have the same risk exposures as traditional assets. Therefore, FF and FFC models are of limited application. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss three key issues analysts should consider when using empirical multi-factor models\
1. Widespread searches for statistically significant factors run the risk of false identification of useful factors (correlated, but no indication). Therefore, it is vital that factors be identified with solid theoretical reasoning, with rigorous statistical testing, or with both. For example, 90% confidence level with 50 IID variables, then there are 50*10% = 5 variables that had no true relationship to returns.\
2. Differentiating between factors that are correlated with returns and those that cause returns. \
3. Using an empirical multi factor model lies in justifying why it should perform better than CAPM in describing the trade-off between risk and return. I.e. why would investors choose high exposures to some factors and low exposures to others when the CAPM implies that all investors obtain their highest expected utility from allocating to market-weight exposures?\
Note: for traditional case, investors tend to fully diversify into a market-weighted portfolio, while alternative investments, it depends on multiple factors, as it\'92s impossible to invest in a market-weighted portfolio of alternative investments (many privately held)\
\
6.4 Demonstrate knowledge of arbitrage-free financial models.\
\uc0\u61623  Describe arbitrage-free models\
a financial model with relationships derived by the assumption that arbitrage opportunities do not exits, or at least do not persist.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss applications of arbitrage-free models\
Arbitrage-free pricing models are used in the analysis of interest rates, foreign exchange rates, derivatives and other areas, such as cash-and-carry trades. Relative pricing models, which prescribes the relationship between two prices.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe arbitrage-free pricing in spot markets\
spot market or cash market is any market in which transactions involve immediate payment and delivery. Arbitrage-free pricing in spot markets involves identifying two sets of transactions with identical outcomes and requiring that their prices be equal. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Describe hedged and unhedged carry trades\
Carry trades are typically a set of long and short positions intended to generate perceived benefits through time. Carry trades can be either be hedged or exposed to risk. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Define forward contracts, and recognize their uses in hedging\
A forward contract is simply an agreement paling for deferred delivery of an asset of a payoff. \
F_\{T-t\} = [T*R_T - t*R_t]/\{T-t\}\
where F_\{T-t\} yield to maturity offered on a forward contract over interval between maturity of short term T-bill and maturity of long term T-bill. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize and apply cost-of-carry models\
Financed positions enable economic ownership of an asset without the posting of the purchase price. A financial position is any economic exposure that is obtained with zero net immediate investment. \
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss and apply binomial tree models\
Binomial tree models are often used to price equites, fixed-income securities, and derivatives. A binomial tree model projects possible outcomes in a variable by modeling uncertainty as two movements: an upward movement and a downward movement. (1. Risk neutral to calculate probability; 2. Calculate the payoff)\
\
6.5 Demonstrate knowledge of the term structure of forward contracts.\
\uc0\u61623  Identify the two determinants of forward prices on a risky financial security\
The only difference between buying a financial security in the spot market and establishing a long position in a forward contract on that security is the timing of exchange. \
1. payment for the underlying asset is deferred until delivery\
2. dividends or other cash flows generated by the underlying asset are received by the owner of the asset, but not by the long position in the forward contract\
As a result, given cash prices, there are two factors to determine forward prices\
1. riskless interest rate, or financing rates associated with the deferred payment for the underlying asset\
2. dividends and other distributions paid during the period of deferal\
F= S + financing cost - dividends paid\
\
\uc0\u61623  Compare the pricing of forward contracts on financial securities and commodities\
Forward prices only depends on current market values (risk-free rate and dividend rate), instead of expected market values\
Commodity forward prices and the term structure of forward prices on commodities often do not adhere to a strict cost-of-carry relationship for several reasons. while the forward structure\'92s shape for financial forwards is driven purely by interest rates and distributions. The forward structure\'92s shape for commodities is driven by at least 3 additional factors: \
1. forecasts of supply and demand changes\
2. storage cost differentials\
3. convenience yield differentials\
\
\uc0\u61623  Apply the cost-of-carry model for pricing forward contracts on financial securities\
Forward contract on financial securities\
F(T) = S\\times e^\{(r-d)T\}\
Case 1. no dividend and no interest\
S=F(T)\
note the relationship is based on absence of arbitrage opportunities, and any other relationship between prices would allow trades to earning riskless profits\
Case 2. interest rate = dividend rate\
S=F(T)\
The return structure of forward prices is flat.\
Case 3: Interest rate > Dividend rate\
F(T) is higher for higher T\
Case 4: Interest rate < Dividend rate\
F(T) is lower for higher T. the cash distributions lower the value of a financial asset\
\
6.6 Demonstrate knowledge of option exposures.\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize the key characteristics of long and short positions in an underlying asset\
An option is a contract that allows its owner the right to execute a specified transaction in the future.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize the key characteristics of call and put exposures\
Covered call: long an asset with short a call option on the same asset\
Protective put: long an asset with long a put option on the same asset\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss characteristics of option spreads\
An option spread\
1. contains either call options or put options (not both)\
2. contains both long and short positions in options with the same underlying asset\
\
\uc0\u61623  Define bull and bear spreads\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Consider one long position and one short position in either two calls or two puts that different only by strike prices.\

\b Bear
\b0  
\b spread
\b0 : long option position is at the higher of two strike prices, which offers bearish exposure to the underlying asset\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Bull
\b0  
\b spread
\b0 : long lower, and short higher\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss option combinations\
An option combination contains both calls and puts on the same underlying asset. \

\b Option straddle
\b0 : long a call and a put with the same underlying asset, expiration date and strike price\

\b Option strangle
\b0 : long a call and a put with the same underlying asset, expiration date but different strike prices\

\b Option collar
\b0 : long a put and short a call\
\
\uc0\u61623  Define and apply the concept of put-call parity\
Call + Bond - Put = Underlying Asset\
\
6.7 Demonstrate knowledge of option pricing models.\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize and apply the Black forward option pricing model\
Black option pricing model for a call option on a forward contract\
c = e^\{-rT\}[FN(d_1) - K N(d_2)]\
\
\uc0\u61623  Recognize and apply the currency option pricing model\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Option value (currency) = e^\{-r^* T\} S^* N(d_1) - e^\{-rT\} S N(d_2)\
where r* is the foreign risk free rate while r is the domestic risk free rate\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
6.8 Demonstrate knowledge of option sensitivities.\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss option sensitivities\

\b elasticity
\b0  is the percentage change in a value with respect to a percentage change in another value\

\b lambada 
\b0 or
\b  omega
\b0  are often used to indicate the elasticity of an option price with respect to the price of the option\'92s underlying asset. Thus lambda or omega for a call option is the elasticity of an option price with respect to the price of the underlying asset and is equal to delta \\times quality (S/c)\
\
\uc0\u61623  Discuss the uses of option sensitivities in risk management\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 1. Traders use sensitivities to establish hedge ratios\
2. To manage all potential risk exposures\
Note: a total derivative measures the direction of the change and is accurate for infinitesimal changes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}